Networking options for Ouroboros Genesis (#1405)
cardano-foundation/developer-portal: docs/get-started/cardano-node/topology.md

sidebar_position: 5
description: OVerview and configiuration of P2P topology.
keywords: [Get-started, run the node, installation, networking, p2p, peer to peer, cardano-node, cardano node]
---

The P2P topology file specifies how to obtain the _root peers_.

* The term _local roots_ refers to a group of peer nodes with which a node will aim to maintain a specific number of active or 'hot' connections.
  These hot connections play an active role in the consensus algorithm.
  Conversely, 'warm' connections refer to those not yet actively participating in the consensus algorithm.
  Local roots should comprise local relays, a local block-producing node, and any other peers with which the node needs to maintain a connection.
  These connections are typically kept private.

* _bootstrap peers_: trusted set of peers, only used for syncing.  With

>   `cardano-node-10.2` one can use _Genesis_ instead.

Reviewer: FYI, the "instead" here sounds like 10.2 can't use `bootstrap peers`.

> * _bootstrap peers_: trusted set of peers, only used for syncing.  With
>   `cardano-node-10.2` one can use _Genesis_ instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* _bootstrap peers_: trusted set of peers, only used for syncing.  With
  `cardano-node-10.2` one can use _Genesis_ as well.
```
@nfrisby @crocodile-dentist re: https://github.com/cardano-foundation/developer-portal/pull/1405#discussion_r1973744292 - would this be better?

Author: I'll reword it because it may sound like one can use both at the same time but that isn't the case.
